---
layout: post
title: Rails Conf 2018 Day 1
tags:
  - Learning
  - Conferences
---

I visited Rails Conf and Pittsburgh this week and I wanted to post my notes
from the talks I went to. Here are the notes and takeaways from day one.

# Keynote: Fixme - DHH

We wouldn't have Rails without the focus and work of DHH and this talk was a
great start to the conference. The talk focused on learning and making Rails
easy and accessible to everyone through conceptual compression.

## Notes

### Conceptual Compression

Technology is constantly changing but at the same time it is staying the same.
Some technologies change but others change the same.  Rails attempts to reduce
the mindspace needed develop for the web.. DHH gave the example of ActiveRecord
allowing people to build websites without needing to understand SQL. This
lowers the barrier to entry. We no longer need a DBA's specialized knowledge
and can just use the developers. We can now get a lot more done without
worrying about details that our predecessors had to. All of this is enabled by
conceptual compression, taking complicated problems, solving them and then
abstracted them so day to day development doe not rely on the specialized
knowledge. 

### Embrace Leaky Abstraction

Rails has tons of leaky abstractions, and DHH is proud of this. It's an
important tool for getting basic functionality out. Day one doesn't have a
perfect solution but you can help manage away some complexity. Where complexity
leaks through users can dive deeper when they need. Defined this as JIT(Just in
Time) learning.

### Rails is Inclusive

The internet has been colonized by large companies. Rails attempts to keep the
bar of entry low to encourage growth and new opportunities. Low barriers to
entry and more businesses is benificial for everyone.

## Takeaways

- Conceptual Compression: software is improving and becoming easier; advanced
  topics can be reduced to simpler extractions that can be learned later.s
- JIT Learning allows developers to go far without knowing everything, learn
  more when you need it.
- Embrace leaky abstractions to help enable just in time learning.

# Continuous Deployments and Data Sovereignty: A Case Study - Mike Calhoun

## Notes

Different countries have different data laws. Working in a place like Australia
means users Private Identifying Information can not leave the country. This
complicates the deployment and development structure. Originally they tried
doing separate branches per region it wasn't practical. Ended up just doing
completely separate deployments per region, with little interoperability.

If cross region support is required One solution is to have separate regional
deployments and then a service that has a (region_id, user_id) pair but none of
the identifying information.

## Takeaways

- Think hard about the audience before building and structuring your app if you
  will be multi-region.
- Consult lawyers.

# Scaling the Software Artisan - Coraline Ada Ehmke

## Notes

Coraline argued developers are software artisans not software engineers.
Creating custom solutions is being commoditized away. More and more software is
generic and composed of smaller open source or closed source subsystems, this
is like manufacturing standardizing on parts. "The job of the future is not
your job today" As a software artisans career progresses it's less about the
code, instead you are asking four questions:

  1. Innovate:
  * Should we solve this with code?
  * Can we fix this with better communication?
  * Is this something we should build ourselves?
  * Should we extract this into a library?

  2. Standardize:
  * How do we want to do things?
  * How do we build consensus? Be inclusive and allow dissent
  * How do we spread best practices?

  3. Mutlitply
  * Do we have a good mix of people?
  * Are we pairing people effectively?
  * What can I do to level the team up?

  4. Be Ethical:
  * What are the consequences and reprocussions of this code?
  * Remember that bias, selling data and algorithms aren't neutral.

## Takeaways
- Software is changing and being commoditized and our jobs will change.
- Stay on top of the change by innovating, standardizing, multiplying and being
  ethical
- We are accountable for the software we create

# Down The Rabbit Hole: An Adventure in Legacy Code - Loren Crawford

## Notes

**Legacy code:** system of working software written by many.

When deciding whether to change or not change, if no one is reading it then
don't change it. 

> "The hurrior I go, the more behinder I get" ~ Lewis Carrol

Most of the material covered in this talk I already summarized here: [Working
Effectively with Legacy Code](/2018/03/04/working-effectively-with-legacy-code)

## Takeaways

- Watch: [A Common Taxonomy of Bugs and How to Catch
  Them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0J5OWi65rTI)
- Read books: "Refactoring", "Working Effectively with Legacy Code", "Ruby
  Object Oriented Design"

# The Life and Death of a Rails App -  Olivier Lacan
 
 Olivier Lacan worked at Code School and he walked through the stages of birth
 through death of their startup and team. I really enjoyed this talk.

## Notes

Sucess for them came from `(timing + content) * audience`.

Stages of a company/software project:
1. **Growth:** As the company grew they added dependencies: both
human(customers) and software.
2. **Butterfly:** When they started growing they got to a stage where they
started to think they were special and justifying why they needed to do
something different. Spoilers you aren't different. 
3. **Adulthood:** They recognized that the decisions they made were not the
only solution.

Faced team instability and lack of ownership. Making diverse hire's helped with
to counteract this and other problems. Introduced the concept of immunity for
new team members, with permission to question and criticize decisions. I think
this immunity should be indefinite. 

You need to distrust the process. What is right for the company changes and
process makes things comfortable but not necessarily efficient. Continue to
question choices.

Some warnings:
- Beware of not invented here syndrome, there are a lot of great tools out
  there. Remember you aren't special.
- Devalue code and overvalue your people.
- Security is important and bug bounty programs are a good start.
- Not listening to security issues isn't a security strategy.

"Sunset" and "Acquihire" are euphemisms and hide the truth that an application
is dying or being killed.

## Takeaways

Post-Mortem:
- The legacy is the people the team and customers that you built and reached.
- Ditch toxic people ASAP.
- Nurture good people.
- Share ownership and allow mistakes.
- Involve yourself in the ecosystem you live in, i.e. open source, community
  etc.
- Accept mortality (never enough money, time, talent, etc).
- Share healthy habits and ideas.
- Focus on joy.
- Learn by doing.
- Just In Time learning is okay, learn and discover as you grow.

# Knobs, Levers and Buttons Tools for failing gracefully - Amy Unger

Amy is a software engineer at Heroku and talked about managing failure in the
software like pilots in a cockpit.

## Notes

Lots of types of knobs, levers and buttons to help manage failure.

1. **Maintenance Mode:** big on/off lever to put your site offline if there are
issues
2. **Read Only Mode:** requires splitting writes and reads but can be useful
for some applications. For example you can disable posting/comments but enable
browsing.
3. **Feature Flags:** Disable failing features behind a switch.
  - **User:** per user feature flags, less useful when tons of users.
  - **Global:** disable a feature for everyone
  - **Group:** disable a feature for groups, i.e. admins, partners, enterprise
    customers
4. **Rate Limiting:** Load shedding. Best implemented with a default value and
have _ratio_ modifiers on the individual level to allow graceful scaling of
load.
5. **Stop Work:** Being able to turn off non-critical work is important in
error situations.
6. **Known Unknowns:** When you want to roll something out but are unsure of
the consequences, [github/scientist](https://github.com/github/scientist) or
similar can help.
7. **Circuit Breakers:** Responsive shut offs and hard shutoffs can help manage
failure.

## Takeaways

There are a lot of different ways to manage failure to use depending on
requirements. Using ratios for load shedding was something I had never
considered and sounds valuable and easy.

# Turbo Boosting Real-world Applications - Akira Matsuda

This talk was a dive into some slow parts of Rails and hacks to make things
faster. Most of this was around adding parallelization to database queries and
view rendering. 

## Takeaways

There are some ways to parallize sending database queries to speed up responses but you have to be careful of database connections. 
The futures pattern is easy to use in Ruby and can enable async work
```ruby
Thread.new { do_something }.value
```

# Keynote: Rails Doesn’t Scale

Clickbait talk title that was less focused on scaling code and more on scaling teams.

## Notes

The social side of scaling an application isn't as interesting as scaling the
team. If you can scale a team effectively than they can scale your application.
Hero culture doesn't scale; teaching scales as you add people. So scale up your
team with good teaching practices.

## Takeaways

- Just because you learn a lesson once doesn't mean you won't repeat it.
- People are what scale technology, so scale your people.
